---
# This page has been generated by pkgdocs. Do not edit by hand.
# Edit documentation in crane/R/token.R
title: Crane User Options
linkTitle: options
type: docs
github_repo: https://github.com/openanalytics/crane-r
github_subdir: ''
github_branch: master
path_base_for_github_subdir:
  from: content/.*
  to: crane/R/token.R

---
 


## Description

Consolidate and lookup user configuration,
which can be set both via environment variables and R
options.

## Usage

```r
get_crane_opt(..., default = NULL)
```

## Arguments

* `...`: `character(1)` option key where each key level is given as a separate arg. The top-level `crane` is implied and does not need to be provided.
* `default`: default object to return if no value is set via an R base option or environment variable

## Details

the matching environment variable for an option can be found by dot separtors with underscores and uppercasing all letters. For example, the R option `crane.config.file` matches the environment variable `CRANE_REPO_CONFIG`.
If an option is set both via [base::options](https://rdrr.io/r/base/options.html) and as an environment variable, the value set via an option will take precedence.

## Options

* `crane.cache.persistent`: store cache in the filesystem.
* `crane.cache.dir`: directory to use to store cache. See [default_cache_dir](../default_cache_dir) for the default.

* `crane.config.file`: filepath to the config file for crane. See [default_config_file](../default_config_file) for the default.
* `crane.config.autocreate`: automatically create the config file and its parent directories if it does not exist.

* `crane.curl.insecure`: do not verify peer identity

* `crane.shim.verbose`: be verbose about extra actions in the [utils::download.file](https://rdrr.io/r/utils/download.file.html) shim (that is activated with [enable_install_packages_hook](../enable_install_packages_hook))
* `crane.debug.alwaysrefresh`: always refresh cached tokens even if they are not expired.

* `crane.interactive`: open the verification url in the browser of the user automatically using [utils::browseURL](https://rdrr.io/r/utils/browseURL.html) during the device authorization flow. By default this will only happen if running in interactive mode ([base::interactive()](https://rdrr.io/r/base/interactive.html))

* `crane.poll.verbose`: poll verbosely for access token
* `crane.device.offline`: request an offline refresh token. If enabled, this
adds the `offline_access` OIDC scope.
* `crane.device.scope`: extra scopes to add to the device authorization code
request

